this video will show you how to set up
parallel processing in FL Studio this
technique can be used for all kinds of
effects people have been asking me for a
parallel compression tutorial so in this
example we're going to be doing some
parallel compression in the firewalk
production if you don't know what
parallel processing or parallel
compression is then I suggest you check
out my other video explaining what this
is and why we use it you can find the
link for it in the description this
tutorial will focus on how to set it up
so let's get started the first thing I'm
going to do is import a drum loop I want
to compress it to bring up the lows and
make it a bit punchier but I don't want
to lose the transients I want to be
crisp clear and punchy at the same time
to achieve this we'll use parallel
processing route the drums - mixer
insert number 1
give it a name
next disconnect it from the master by
clicking here we're now going to route
the signal to two additional tracks in
order to send the signal from one track
to the other click here and here to
route it to both tracks now you can see
the virtual cables appearing indicating
that the signal goes from track 1 to
track 2 and 3 track 2 & 3 is sending the
signal to the master let's bring down
the volume a bit select track 2 and name
it drum loop dry
then select track 3 and name it drum
loop wet next select track 3 and add a
compressor for the sake of this tutorial
I'll be using the fruity compressor for
this let's quickly apply some
compression to fatten up the drums
I'll mute the dry track so that we can
focus on the one with the compressor on
it as you can hear the compressor is now
affecting the sound it becomes punchier
but at the same time it has lost some of
its transients the dry one on the other
hand still retains all its transients so
let's enable it again we can now adjust
the volume on these two tracks to get it
sounding exactly as we want if we want a
punch here we can increase the volume on
the track with the compressor on it or
we can lower the wet one and increase
the dry one if we want more transients
just play around with the volumes until
you get the sound you're after by doing
it this way we can get the best of both
worlds you can get the punchiness from
the compressor while still retaining
some dynamics
note that in this tutorial the dry and
wet tracks go directly to the master
typically you want to set it up for
several other elements as well in that
case it would be better to route it from
the dry and wet track directly to a sub
mix instead of the master and then from
the sub mix to the master like so last
but not least I'd like to add many
third-party plugins have a built-in
wet/dry knob this basically does the
same thing as we just did but much
quicker in some cases you can also use
to dry wet knob on the mixer but it
doesn't always work properly with all
plugins sometimes you'll end up with
some weird PVC issues there you have it
that's how you set up parallel
processing in FL Studio
is there any specific tutorial you'd
like me to make or perhaps you have a
question just leave me a comment below I
hope this was helpful
if you liked the video please like share
and comment I'm uploading new tutorials
and templates every week so make sure to
subscribe to this channel so that you
won't miss out
[Music]